red squirrels are indigenous to the UK
and over the past few hundred years have
been confined to the Highlands of
Scotland partially due to persecution
but mainly to do with the introduction
of the American gray squirrel which is
what most people think of as squirrel
the main differences between a red
squirrel and a gray squirrel is a red
squirrels are considerably smaller but
the coat color they have this lovely
bright gingery red coat in the summer
and it turns to a more so a grayish coat
in the winter so they can actually look
a little bit like a gray squirrel in
coloration there are true original red
squirrels they say have white tails in
the summer and the squirrels that were
reintroduced to Scotland to help booster
the numbers from Scandinavia they have
greyish tails so the true Scottish red
squirrels have this lovely blonde tail
in the summer it's how we identify
individuals is by the colour of the tail
and maybe the shapes of their ears and
things like that and also their
characteristics as well
they'll quite happily jump from one tree
to another through the tiny little thin
branches at the end of them so they'll
go up the main trunk cross to the
thinnest of branches and then leap into
their neighboring tree so they can move
quite well day long the ground or
through the canopy so supremely adapted
for their habitat
they're kind of will tolerate each other
but they won't give each other cuddles
and things like they won't sit side by
side very often certainly do quite often
squabble especially where there's a good
food source so if we've put nuts out for
them and they're coming in they're
feeding and they're running away and
caching the nuts that we've put out
they also swish their tail in anger each
other so we can always tell by watching
one squirrel if another squirrels around
by the way it just stares into the
forest and sort of glares that they
intruder coming in to steal its food
they mark scent mark the trees with the
urinate on the trees and it's a bit of a
messaging service to say I'm a male
squirrel I'm here keep away or I'm a
female squirrel and I would like to meet
a male squirrel so it's a bit like our
equivalent of a social media platform so
smell is very important to them when
there's a glut of food especially nuts
they'll run off and they'll bury them
now people will tell you that they
remember where they bury every single
nut I would kind of disagree with that a
little bit I think they use a tremendous
sense of smell to be able to smell where
they've buried their nuts
they'll quite happily spend a lot of
time up in the tops of the trees they're
well adapted to live on the ground and
forage on the ground as well as up and
down trees their back legs their ankles
actually swelled 180 degrees so the
wonder underground their feet are facing
forwards or when they're coming down a
tree their toes are facing back up the
trees so they're so supremely adapted
for going up and down trees and for also
foraging on the ground so red squirrels
have been confined to the far reaches of
their Highlands of Scotland mainland
so there are iconic species up here
everybody loves the red squirrel the
winter they grow these lovely little
cute crimped ear tufts and they're just
so pretty and cute quite entertainers to
watch and to photograph especially